# Browser Block Demo
This project is a ready-to-deploy example of the [balena browser block](https://github.com/balena-labs-projects/browser).

The browser block provides a hardware accelerated web browser to present internal and external URLs on a connected display. The browser block is a docker image that runs a Chromium browser via X11, optimized for balenaOS.

## Deploy this project

Simply click the button below. If you don't already have a [balenaCloud](https://www.balena.io/) account you'll be asked to create one. (BalenaCloud is a remote device management platform na dthe first ten devices are free and full-featured. No credit card required!)

Follow the instructions for downloading the image and flashing to an SD card to use to boot your device.

## Usage

Make sure your device is connected to the internet and the SD card/flash media is inserted. Also make sure a monitor is connected to your device so you can view the web browser display. Power on your device and after the software has been downloaded you should see the welcome web page on your monitor.

Initially you'll see a custom page generated by the project's on-device web server. By default, the browser block displays the output of any web server it finds on the device's port 80. You can change the displayed URL by setting a [variable](https://docs.balena.io/learn/manage/variables/) on the balenaCloud dashboard:

- On the balenaCloud dashboard, make sure you are viewing your device summary page by clicking on a device
- Click on "variables" on the left side menu the "Add variable"
- In the "Add variable" dialog box, type `LAUNCH_URL` in the "Name" text box and type the URL you want to display in the "Value" box.
- Click the "Add"button, then click the "Apply all changes" button.
- You containers will restart and the new URL should be displayed on the device's monitor.

You can repeat the above steps to change the URL displayed on any of the devices in your fleet. If you want to change all of the devices to the same URL at once, you can use the [fleet-level variable](https://docs.balena.io/learn/manage/variables/#fleet-wide-variables) feature.


## Deploy a fleet of these devices

BalenaCloud is all about making it easy to maintain fleets of devices. To easily add more device, simply flash the same image used for the first device to additional SD cards and boot additional devices. They will all get their own unique ID and show up as separate devices in your dashboard. You can then remotely change the displayed URL using the steps described above. 


Photo by <a href="https://unsplash.com/@artnok?utm_content=creditCopyText&utm_medium=referral&utm_source=unsplash">Nicolas Picard</a> on <a href="https://unsplash.com/photos/selective-focus-photography-of-spiderweb--lp8sTmF9HA?utm_content=creditCopyText&utm_medium=referral&utm_source=unsplash">Unsplash</a>
  
